Title: Bourne Select Board Authorizes Contract Negotiations For Police Station Roof Replacement
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-07T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-select-board-authorizes-contract-negotiations-for-police-station-roof-replacement/article_ad937c7a-be57-4054-80e8-884a67dd8e52.html

The Bourne Select Board authorized Town Administrator Marlene V. McCollem to negotiate a contract with Pomroy Associates as the Owner’s Project Manager (OPM) to oversee the replacement of the roof on the Bourne police station at its meeting on Tuesday , August 4 .

The Police Station Roof Replacement Building Committee had placed Pomroy Associates of East Bridgewater at the top of its list of firms to be recommended to the Select Board as the project’s OPM at its meeting on July 29.

The committee received applications from four firms and decided to hold interviews with three: Pomroy Associates; RGB Construction out of East Greenwich Township, New Jersey; and ECC Roofing & Siding out of Hammonton, New Jersey. Pomroy narrowly edged out RGB as the top contender for the OPM position.

Since Police Station Roof Replacement Building Committee chairman Bruce McNamee was not able to attend the Select Board’s meeting on Tuesday, board clerk Mary Jane Mastrangelo, who serves as the board’s representative on the committee, provided insight into the committee’s recommendation.

“They were all qualified,” Mastrangelo said of the firms. “The committee recommended Pomroy Associates be the first choice and to recommend to the Select Board for the town administrator to negotiate.”

“We had some really good applicants, so it was a tough decision,” she added. “We had a lot of discussion but we felt Pomroy would be the best fit at this time.”

A motion by Mastrangelo to authorize McCollem to “negotiate an OPM contract with Pomroy Associates for the police station building roof” was seconded by board vice chairwoman Anne-Marie Siroonian. The board members in attendance—Mastrangelo, Siroonian and board chairwoman Melissa A. Ferretti—voted unanimously to approve the motion.

The new police station was built in 2019 and has had a list of defects, including leaks, improper ventilation and failing plumbing. The town has sued both M. O’Connor Inc., the contractor; and Kaestle Boos Associates, the architect, who were given charge of the project.

The lawsuit contends that “the Town attempted to work in good faith with the defendants to properly finish the Project, but despite the Town’s efforts, [M. O’Connor] failed to correct its defective work, thereby breaching its contract with the Town.”

Additionally, the lawsuit claims Kaestle Boos to be in breach of its contract “because it provided defective designs of the Project’s roof and HVAC system.” As a result, the firm’s actions “have caused the Town’s taxpayers to suffer substantial damages to properly complete the Project.”
