Title: Bourne ISWM Building Chair, Operations Manager Shares Updates With Select Board
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-07T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-iswm-building-chair-operations-manager-shares-updates-with-select-board/article_e0e918b4-31f9-47e9-92b7-b8f343e57ec6.html

Integrated Solid Waste Management (ISWM) Building Committee chairman and ISWM operations manager Asa Mintz presented updates on ISWM’s new office and maintenance building and the transfer station projects at the Bourne Select Board’s meeting on Tuesday , August 4 .

Mintz shared that building the new office and maintenance building is “on track, under budget.”

He shared that work on the building’s foundation is ongoing, with portions of the foundation in the ground.

Installing utility infrastructure is also ongoing, Mintz said. With supplies arriving at the end of this week, ISWM plans to begin work on the primary duct bank next week.

“That’s a big milestone for us and a good-size project for the staff,” he noted.

Mintz shared that ISWM will also be working on the site’s drainage, as staff will be “shaping up the big drainage basin” and the contractor has been “doing a lot of the collection areas around the building itself.”

The engineering team has been working on the gas line crossing. In addition to engaging National Grid, Mintz said the state has been involved to obtain a Massachusetts Department of Transportation permit, since the line will be brought under Route 28.

In regard to other items in design, Mintz shared that the bird wire system on the building will be redesigned to reduce the amount of roof penetration: “We’ve decided to send that back to the drawing board and come up with a plan that doesn’t have roof penetration for the most part. We may still end up with a couple, but certainly not the number that we had in the design originally.”

The transfer station project is “well into design development,” Mintz shared.

Estimated at $14.25 million, the project’s schematic design has been approved. Mintz shared that the sum does not include “architectural and engineering services.” He noted that last Fall Town Meeting had already allocated $1.134 million for the project.

There has been “fine-tuning” to the plans to make the building “more efficient,” which Mintz described as a “normal part of the design development process,” in a telephone call with the Enterprise on Thursday , August 6 . He noted that changes to the building’s height, site layouts and surrounding areas were done to ensure that there is “enough clearance” for equipment. The annex layout was decreased after it was realized that it did not need as much space as expected.

Noting how ISWM General Manager Daniel Barrett had also presented before the Bourne of Health on July 22 to update it on the project’s development. Mintz noted the that the project still needs to be presented to the Board of Health for its approval.

“We don’t want to appear like we’re being presumptuous and bringing this thing to Town Meeting before we have it permitted. It is really just a matter of timing,” Mintz said. “We can’t wait until next May to allocate the funds for this, so we need to allocate the funds before we have all the permits in place”

Mintz shared that the project is still in the site suitability/site assignment process with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP).

He said that this process of relocating the transfer station from one area of the property to another, with the same site tonnage and only “a little bit bigger,” has been more challenging than anticipated.

Noting that the process is done to determine whether a “site is suitable,” Mintz said, “we are digging down to the nuts and bolts.” He shared that MassDEP has requested ISWM to redo traffic studies and asked operational questions, which he said are “things we see in the authorization to construct [process].”

Mintz shared on Thursday that the original traffic study was completed in 1998, and since then several additional traffic studies have been completed. He said that MassDEP is asking for an updated traffic study so it can understand how the changes to the transfer station could impact traffic inside and outside of the property.

“This process has really pushed us out six to nine months at this point. It’s really put the squeeze on our schedule,” Mintz stated.

The project entails moving the transfer station and, after the new transfer station is finished, excavating “150 to 200 thousand yards of material underneath that structure,” Mintz said. This has left little time, he noted, citing the “long lead time” required to do the aforementioned moving and excavating.

“We’re calling it a gap. It is an overlap in time in which we may not have a transfer station for a few months,” Mintz stated. Efforts are ongoing to find solutions, he noted, adding that MassDEP has been informed of the potential situation.

“We’re hoping that the additional time we have spent working through the site suitability and the additional detail we have given them will help the next step, which is the authorization to construct,” Mintz noted.

Upon the completion of Mintz’s presentation, board clerk Mary Jane Mastrangelo shared a comment that the public had suggested at the Massachusetts Department of Transportation’s public design hearing about the Sagamore Bridge on July 23.

“One of the things that was brought up at that design public hearing was the possibility of an exit, a curb cut, that we might be able to talk to MassDOT about on 28 from the southern end, so the people exiting [the ISWM facilities] would not have to go all the way up to the rotary; they could turn at Pocasset or Clay Pond,” she stated. “As you’re moving the landfill, is that something that might work in terms of a road or is that not possible?”

In response, Mintz shared that this proposal had been discussed with longtime Cape Cod Regional Transit Authority Administrator Thomas S. Cahir prior to his death.

“The conclusion that we came to on this is that where we have our scales at the north end of the site, it would be really challenging to control the mix of commercial and residential traffic if you introduce another exit, entrance or both,” he said.

“That’s why I wanted to ask the question,” Mastrangelo said, emphasizing that what may “seem like a good idea” needs to also be thought about operationally.

Mastrangelo also asked if the scale will remain in the same location or not. Mintz said that the “intention is to keep the scale where it is.”
