Title: Bourne ISWM Updates Board of Health On Ongoing, Future Projects
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-iswm-updates-board-of-health-on-ongoing-future-projects/article_3e6065b0-2bdb-464f-80d4-896a3ca23497.html

Bourne Integrated Solid Waste Management (ISWM) General Manager Daniel T. Barrett presented updates on the statuses of various aspects of development at the town’s landfill to the Bourne Board of Health at its meeting on July 22.

Progress on the office and maintenance garage building project is “going well,” Barrett said. He shared that July 20, 2027, is the projected completion date, “provided everything goes well.”

With the building permit being issued on June 30, Page Building Construction, a general contractor based in Stoughton, began working in late June. On schedule with their work, J.B. Lanagan Co., a site contractor based in North Dartmouth, “began digging foundations and installing drainage” on June 2, Barrett said.

Asa Mintz, ISWM operations manager, and his crew did “a fantastic job of giving Page Construction that site pre-graded, pre-subgraded, and ready to go,” Barrett added.

The new administrative office and maintenance garage facility is part of an overall expansion project at the town landfill that includes the construction of a new transfer station. Mintz noted that the new larger facility would handle household trash, single-stream recyclables and construction and demolition debris.

An update on the status of the site assignment process for the construction and operation of the new transfer station on an identified 12-acre parcel was provided by Barrett. This process determines a parcel’s suitability for a proposed facility.

As part of the site assignment process, Barrett said he filed the new facility’s traffic assessment on June 30 with Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP) and advertised a public notice on July 2.

MassDEP then responded on July 6: “They came back with a notice that they had noticed,” Barrett said. This began a 42-day public comment period that will end on August 16.

A technical review period will be held from August 16 to September 25, during which MassDEP will provide their comments and the public’s for the town to answer, and vice versa, Barrett said. “It’s a good built-in back and forth for everybody,” he said of the review period.

“Bottom line is September 25 is when [MassDEP’s] decision is due. This is when you guys come in,” Barrett said to the Board of Health. “Assuming it’s favorable, you guys then have to initiate the public hearing process on October 25…You’ll have to render a decision by December 9–45 days after initiation of the hearing. The board has seven days to publish the notice of decision.”

“So our decision is whether we agree with the [DEP]?” Board Clerk Dr. Miguel Prieto asked. Barrett replied that “historically, what boards of health do is they take a look at the DEP site sustainability report and base their judgement on that technical review done by the state.” He added that ultimately that “this decision is the board’s,” and emphasized collaboration between ISWM and the board if the board had questions.

Once the site is approved and the site assignment process has been completed, the “goal here is to start the building of the transfer station,” Barrett said.

“There’s a couple things happening here,” he noted, citing the site suitability and assignment process and an article for the upcoming Fall Town Meeting to fund the design and engineering of the new transfer station.

The submission of designs in order to receive permits and authorization to construct (ATC) are all factors that go into determining the building schedule on a Gantt chart, Barrett said. Noting that the project’s completion date is estimated to be December 2029, he informed the board of ISMW’s efforts to avoid potential holes in the chart.

The next order of business involved Barrett informing the board of ISWM’s next project to cap Phase 9 of the landfill, which will involve covering approximately 12.5 acres.

He shared that ISWM will seek to file corrective action design (CAD) for Phase 9 initial stages this fall. “We’ll be in front of Town Meeting asking for a vote to move some of our closure, post-closure money into initial capping of what is now Phase 9,” Barrett said.

The landfill closure, post-closure or correction action fund is housed within ISWM’s Enterprise Fund, which uses revenues from the facility’s operations, fees and other charges, rather than the town’s general tax revenue.

“It’s paramount for us to get that closed as quickly as we can and get as much of it up to finish grade,” Barrett said of capping Phase 9.

“We already have some money approved at Town Meeting… $2,026,488.23,” Barrett added. “But as we continue to move forward that number grows. Asa is developing the final acreage right now to see what that number is going to need to be so we can go to Town Meeting this fall and ask for that money.”

Prefacing that the final estimate is still being developed, Mintz said that “we’ll be looking for another million to two million to complete that whole project.”

Barrett noted that since it costs approximately “$350,000 an acre to cap,” the plan is to calculate the difference between the acres that have been funded to be capped and the acres that have not yet been funded. “That’s what we are going to ask for,” he added.

Following up from ISWM’s last presentation before the board, Prieto inquired about the use of gases, like methane, to produce energy. While the ISWM currently does not have that, Barrett said that “our biggest alternative energy capability is going to be when we cap. When we cap we can put solar panels up there.”
