Title: Bourne Board Of Health Finds Tattoo Operation In Violation Of Town Regulations, Refers To Town Counsel
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-board-of-health-finds-tattoo-operation-in-violation-of-town-regulations-refers-to-town/article_78f5487f-736b-4a78-bd6c-9fc3e71a7558.html

The Bourne Health Department found that Steven Gorman of Sagamore Beach violated the town’s body art regulations by operating a tattooing business without proper permits and licenses and in a residentially zoned area. The Board of Health voted at its July 22 meeting to take legal action to resolve the issue after previous correspondence went unanswered.

The Health Department sent Gorman a notice on July 2, 2025, after being informed by a report from the Bourne Police Department that Gorman had been operating a tattooing business in a Canal Street residence. Police discovered the operation on June 19, 2025. The notice informed Gorman that he was violating section D.1 and F.1 of the town’s body art regulations because he did not have an establishment license nor a practitioner license.

It also stated that continuation of unauthorized body art activity would result in a public hearing before the board and, in accordance with the town’s regulations, would refer the matter to the district attorney’s office or another enforcement agency.

Gorman was told to contact the Health Department immediately; however, the department did not receive a response to the notice or any information indicating whether the operation had ceased.

A final notice was sent to Gorman on June 3 by the Health Department after it was informed of his continued unauthorized body art activity, and provided additional evidence and information on the matter.

Noting that the operation of any body art establishment without licenses or permits is prohibited by the town’s body art regulations, the Health Department reiterated Gorman’s violations. The board also noted that based on town records, 23 Canal Street, where Gorman has been operating out of, “is a residential dwelling unit and not a licensed body art establishment. As such, body art activities conducted from this location are not eligible for licensure under the current circumstances and must cease immediately.”

“Pursuant to the authority of the Bourne Board of Health under M.G.L. c. 111, §122 and §123, the unauthorized practice of body art out of an unlicensed residential location, together with the alleged storage, handling, and disposal of tattoo needles, sharps, inks, and other materials associated with body art activities, is hereby determined to constitute a nuisance and potential threat to public health and is ordered abated,” the Health Department wrote.

The department stated that Gorman had 30 days after receiving the final notice on June 3 to cease operations and properly dispose of materials associated with body art and provide documentation showing compliance with the department’s order “unless and until you have obtained a valid Body Art Practitioner Permit issued by the Bourne Board of Health and are conducting body art activities solely within a duly licensed Body Art Establishment.”

The Health Department also stated that if Gorman contends that he is not operating an unauthorized body art business, he should provide an explanation and allow the department to inspect his property within those 30 days.

Gorman was also informed in the final notice that failure to do the aforementioned will result in a hearing before the board at which time the board will discuss enforcement, penalties, referral to the Cape and Islands District Attorney’s Office or other avenues prescribed by law.

Since neither of these steps was taken, the Board of Health held a hearing on July 22.

Gorman was not present at that meeting. When the Enterprise reached out to Gorman for comment, he said that there are no unauthorized body art activities occurring.

Nicole Lantery, a direct neighbor of Gorman’s at the apartment complex at 23 Canal Street, shared her experience at the meeting on July 22. For the past approximately three years, Gorman has operated out of his apartment, which is zoned for residences, not businesses, she said.

“Our walls are so thin—I can hear the needles. I can hear the gun” through their shared wall, Lantery said, adding that she has observed clients walk by her door at 10 or 11 PM. The apartment complex has quiet hours between 10 PM and 7 AM, she said, adding that the foot traffic has been documented through her Ring camera.

Lantery also said that clients often come to her door first when they are looking for his residence. “I don’t feel safe,” she said.

She said that for the past two years she has informed the Board of Health of her concerns, and had recently shared photos with the board of the disposal of associated body art materials: “He threw all of his biohazard waste into our dumpster: needles, razors, inks, paper towels that they use to wipe off.”

Citing the health and zoning regulation violations, protecting public safety and the lack of response from Gorman, Health Board member William “Dusty” Meier proposed that the board should inspect the apartment unit after Gorman has removed the operation from the property.

“It’s a public health issue,” board clerk Dr. Miguel Prieto said of the improper disposal of needles. Board chairman Robert D. Collet IV added that it is also a “public safety issue.”

Stating her concern about the disposal of biohazard waste in dumpsters and other health and zoning violations, Health Board vice chairwoman Margaret Reali said that the department had received verification from its health inspector, along with photos. Bourne police had provided a report to the Health Department, Prieto added.

Town Health Director Kaitlyn Shea said that due to the premises being a residential property, the Health Department does not have the authority to enter the apartment without the occupant’s consent.

“He could continue this forever because we can’t get in there,” Meier said of the board’s inability to access the unit in order to enforce the town’s regulations.

“From a Board of Health perspective—yes,” Shea responded. “But if the board chose to refer this to the district attorney’s office or further legal avenues, the Bourne police could enforce that.”

Shea added that in regard to zoning, the police have “more authority of walking into premises” and reiterated that if the town were to bring the issue to the district attorney, the board could conduct an “executive search for it afterwards and get permission from the courts to walk in, but we would need documentation that we have a right to do so.”

Prieto made a motion, finding “Mr. Steven Gorman has violated the Bourne Board of Health body art regulations by operating this business in a setting that is not allowed” and that the Health Department has “attempted to contact him since July 2025 to no avail, no response whatsoever,” that town counsel confirm the board’s assessment of “the maximum daily noncriminal penalty amount” and offer “further recommendations whether this needs to be referred to the district attorney or not.”

Meier seconded the motion. The board voted unanimously to approve the motion.

Lantery asked for the board’s suggestions, to which Collett replied that the board’s vote will now allow town counsel to take legal action that will “enable the Bourne police to be able to become involved.” He recommended that she continue approaching the Bourne police with evidence.

“Unfortunately, it will take a little bit of time for the process to happen, but we will try to expedite that to the best of our ability,” Collett said.
