Title: Bourne Historical Commission Approves Renovation At Redo Hearing
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-historical-commission-approves-renovation-at-redo-hearing/article_1b08bd5b-79fe-46b2-a149-bc4af8d9014e.html

The Bourne Historical Commission approved a request for renovations at 28 Wenaumet Bluffs Drive in Pocasset at its demolition delay hearing on Tuesday , July 28 .

At its previous hearing on July 14, the commission had approved the proposal ; however, it had to redo the hearing for the property on Tuesday because the public notice for the July 14 hearing was not advertised early enough to provide the public adequate notice to be able to attend the hearing if they wished to do so.

Located in Pocasset, 28 Wenaumet Bluff Drive in Pocasset was built in 1940, according to town records; it is 86 years old.

Section 3.14.1 of the town bylaws defines a significant building as “any building or portion thereof which in whole or in part is more than seventy-five (75) years old or is listed in the historical survey of the Town of Bourne and on file with the Bourne Historical Commission.”

The bylaw further states that it is in effect to “preserve and protect historically significant buildings within the Town of Bourne that reflect distinctive features of the architectural, cultural, economic, political or social history of the Town.”

On behalf of property owners Scott R. and Melissa C. Murphy, Kelly Donovan Hannah of Donovan Construction Company, Inc. presented a plan to rebuild the property’s existing garage, which already features an apartment. She added that the project will use the existing foundation slab.

“A lot of repair is necessary,” Donovan Hannah of Donovan Construction Company, Inc. said of the garage. She noted that “everything it was built with is not up to code and structurally not safe.”

Commission secretary Deborah M. Burgess inquired about the property’s location in a floodplain in regard to building code.

Donovan Hannah said that the project will “adhere to regulations.” Since the property is located in the AE-15 floodplain, regulations state that the first floor level will have to be elevated to 17 feet.

A Federal Emergency Management Agency-designated special flood hazard area, zone AE, indicates that the location is a high-flood-risk area, as it has a 1% annual chance of flooding. The “15” reflects that the location has a base-flood elevation of 15 feet above sea level, meaning that floods are estimated to rise 15 feet.

“Is the exterior finish is going to be the same?” commission chairman Steven Philbrick asked. “Yes, we’re going to match the house,” Donovan Hannah confirmed.

She also confirmed that the “the footprint isn’t changing at all.”

Commission associate member John Harrington noted “that this is a perfect example of remodeling, rather than having demolition by neglect.”

A motion made by commission member Neil F. Langille to accept the presented plans was seconded by member Judith A. Riordan. The board voted unanimously to approve the motion.
