Title: Bourne Open Space Committee Reappoints Representatives To CPC, Notes Vacancies
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-open-space-committee-reappoints-representatives-to-cpc-notes-vacancies/article_9afad69f-ceed-4f62-b2e8-45d3a64c7e95.html

Vacancies on the town’s boards, committees and commissions were discussed at the Open Space Committee’s meeting on July 27, which focused on administrative matters.

The Open Space Committee’s first order of business was to appoint two of its members to represent the committee on the Community Preservation Committee (CPC).

With the three-year terms of Open Space Committee chairman Barry H. Johnson and member Andrew Cooney coming to a close, the committee had to select two representatives to the CPC to begin new three-year terms.

Two members of the Open Space Committee work alongside a member each from the Conservation Commission, Historical Commission, Planning Board, Recreation Committee and Housing Partnership to discuss the town’s resources, needs and possibilities in regard to community preservation. The two seats that are designated by the Select Board are currently vacant.

The CPC is also charged with making recommendations to Town Meeting “for the acquisition, creation and preservation of open space; for the acquisition and preservation of historic resources; for the acquisition, creation and preservation of land for recreational use; for the creation, preservation and support of community housing; and for rehabilitation or restoration of such open space, historic resources, land for recreational use and community housing that is required or created as provided,” the town’s website states.

The Open Space Committee voted unanimously to reappoint Johnson and Cooney.

“You guys are doing a good job,” Open Space Committee member Joseph Fraher said. “Keep it up.”

Johnson raised the point that the Open Space Committee itself has three vacancies that it would like to fill.

Only four of the seven seats on the committee are currently filled, by Johnson, Cooney, Fraher and member Rick Rheinhardt.

The Open Space Committee was established to recommend “acquisitions of interest in real property to be owned or managed by the Conservation Commission or other designated nonprofit organization, or, in the case of interests, to acquire sites for future wellhead development for a Water Resource District,” the town’s website states.

For more information about vacancies on the town’s boards, committees and commissions and how to apply can be found by visiting ma-bourne.civicplus.com/1297/Board-Vacancies .
