Title: Bourne Historical Commission Greenlights Demolition Requests For Two Properties
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-14T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-historical-commission-greenlights-demolition-requests-for-two-properties/article_903b96fa-c324-4d77-8981-71badf8a980e.html

The Bourne Historical Commission approved the requests to demolish two properties, both more than 75 years old, at its meeting on Tuesday , August 11 .

Section 3.14.1 of the town bylaw defines a significant building as “any building or portion thereof which in whole or in part is more than seventy-five (75) years old or is listed in the historical survey of the Town of Bourne and on file with the Bourne Historical Commission.”

The bylaw further states that it is in effect to “preserve and protect historically significant buildings within the Town of Bourne that reflect distinctive features of the architectural, cultural, economic, political or social history of the Town.”

Town records show that 69 Wianno Road in Mashnee was built in 1951 and 757 County Road in Pocasset was built in 1800.

“We don’t know of any historical significance of the dwelling,” said owner Ellen Needham as she requested approval to demolish the house located at 69 Wianno Road on Mashnee Island.

Originally built 76 years ago with two bedrooms, the home already featured three bedrooms at the time of her purchase, Needham said. She noted that she had built the kitchen around 19 years ago.

Commission secretary Deborah M. Burgess said that the cottage is one of the many that Stephen A. Days Sr. had built on Mashnee Island in the first half of the 1900s.

“They’re disappearing faster than we can almost think,” Burgess said of the demolition of the cottages. “Makes me feel sad that we’re even discussing it.”

“There’s a lot of history there,” commission chairman Steven Philbrick agreed. He added that at one point, the homes had been owned by many of the town’s teachers, who then rented them out in the summer months. He added that before that, it had served as a Boy Scout camp.

He proposed that the commission engage in conversation with the Mashnee Island Association to “somehow salvage” a cottage to serve as a showcase for the island’s history.

Appreciative of the commission’s feedback, Needham also shared her understanding of the community’s history.

“I’ve been going to Mashnee my whole life,” she shared, adding how her grandparents resided there as well.

“The struggle we have is that these structures aren’t really meant for [living in] 12 months a year,” Needham explained. “Everything is just getting older.”

Commission vice chairman Donald J. Mahoney inquired about the home being described as not suitable for year-round use.

Needham explained that “half of the island was year-round and then the other half were the summer cottages.”

Commission member Judith A. Riordan noted how properties have increased in size. “I think it is simply what happens over time. And it is happening… That’s changing the culture of the island. I don’t know that there’s anything that’s going to change that, or influence it, but there’s no question, as what happens to all things, it’s not going to be the same.”

Noting the potential presence of artifacts from Native Americans on the island and the island’s 18th-century salt works, commission member Jack MacDonald stated his hope that when historical artifacts are found during projects, they are properly recognized and documented.

In response to Philbrick’s inquiry about what her plans are for the property, Needham shared that after seeing the condition of “the structure between the roof, the windows, the siding,” a decision was reached that it was “not really viable to fix it.” This ultimately led to the decision to demolish the house.

Commission member Jean Campbell noted the potential impact of salt exposure on the house, implying that it may have played a role in the deterioration of a building.

Upon the completion of deliberations, Mahoney seconded Campbell’s motion to approve the demolition as presented. All six members—Campbell, MacDonald, Mahoney, Philbrick, Riordan and Burgess—voted in the affirmative.

Property owner Vickie Taylor presented her proposal for partial demolition of a home located at 757 County Road in Pocasset, which she owns with her husband, Michael Taylor.

Prefacing that she is “not asking for a complete demolition,” Taylor said that they would like to demolish the shed, garage and galley kitchen and bathroom.

“I do realize our house is extremely old,” she said. “But I don’t believe the kitchen was there back then.”

“If there is anything old, trust me, I’ll save it,” Taylor noted.

Speaking in regard to the development of the building, commission secretary Burgess commented, “It’s hard, I think, to tell if any of those pieces were original with the house itself.

Assuming that the 20x21-foot building is the original structure, Taylor said that based on the pitches of the roofs, additions were made to expand the home over time.

While she did not know when those additions were made, Taylor noted that the additions were already there prior to when she and her husband had purchased the property in 1982.

Based on her own observations of the building, Burgess agreed with Taylor’s assessment.

The plan to demolish the galley kitchen, garage, shed and bathroom, and have the remaining portion of the building be a workshop came about as she and her husband were building another home on the property, which town records state was built in 2023.

Regulations did not allow two homes on a singular property at the time of the building permit’s issuance for the new home, Taylor said, which led to the aforementioned solution. Town records show that the permit for the construction of the new home was issued in 2020.

Since accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are now permitted by-right to a single-family home, commission chairman Philbrick inquired whether she and her husband have altered their plan and will make the workshop into an ADU.

They will not, Taylor said, noting the lack of heat and bathroom upstairs.

Burgess inquired about the timeline of the permits. Taylor explained that after they received the permit, she and her husband’s plans for the project were paused and resumed multiple times due to health reasons, the COVID-19 pandemic and then the cost of lumber.

“We finally decided to bite the bullet,” Taylor said. “We’re doing it ourselves. I’m a contractor.”

Acknowledging that the commission had some confusion about the timeline, Philbrick said that following Taylor’s explanation, “it makes sense.”

Once discussion concluded, Riordan seconded a motion made by MacDonald to approve the partial demolition of the existing structure as it was presented. The commission unanimously voted to approve the motion.
