Title: Bourne Select Board Votes To Advertise Vacancies
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-05T15:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-select-board-votes-to-advertise-vacancies/article_7722a1e3-29be-44eb-afbb-c53224e91377.html

After being notified of vacancies on the Planning Board and School Committee, the Bourne Select Board voted unanimously to post and advertise for both seats at its meeting on Tuesday , August 4 .

The vacancy on the Planning Board is for an alternate position, with the term expiring in 2029.

Robert M. Frangieh had been serving in that position, however, after the election this past spring he was voted in as a full member, Planning Board chairman John J. Duggan Jr. wrote in a letter to the Select Board on July 20. He also noted that the Planning Board would like to know when the boards can meet to fill the position.

On Tuesday, Select Board chairwoman Melissa A. Ferretti suggested that the board post and advertise the vacant seat, and Bourne residents interested in the position should “submit their letters of interest to the Town Administrator’s Office by noon on Wednesday, September 2.”

She also proposed that the Select Board meet with the Planning Board on Tuesday, September 8, via Zoom to fill the vacancy.

A motion made by Select Board vice chairwoman Anne-Marie Siroonian to “have the town administrator advertise and post the Planning Board vacancy” was seconded by Select Board clerk Mary Jane Mastrangelo.

The Select Board members present–Ferretti, Siroonian and Mastrangelo–voted unanimously to approve the motion.

The Select Board also discussed the vacancy on the School Committee, which is for a position set to expire in 2028.

In an email dated July 21 to the Select Board on behalf of the School Committee, Superintendent Kerri Anne Quinlan-Zhou said that member Maria Heaney had resigned from the committee. It was also noted that the committee was looking forward to meeting with the Select Board to fill the vacancy.

Heaney, whose term was set to expire in 2028, explained in a telephone call with the Enterprise on Wednesday that she resigned from the committee due to work obligations. She noted that as her job responsibilities had expanded, which involved additional traveling and an inflexible schedule, there were “too many challenges.”

She added that she “loved being on the School Committee” and working with the superintendent and the other members.

Ferretti reiterated her suggestion, but this time for the School Committee’s vacancy. She proposed that after the board has posted and advertised the vacant position, residents interested in serving on the committee would have until September 2 to submit a letter of interest. She added that the board could then meet with the School Committee on September 8 via Zoom to fill the role.

Siroonian’s motion for “the town administrator to advertise and post the School Committee vacancy” was seconded by Mastrangelo. The board then voted unanimously to approve the motion.

Once the vacancies have been posted on the town’s website, more information about and how to apply to fill the vacancies will be on the website’s front page and on ma-bourne.civicplus.com/1297/Board-Vacancies .
