Title: Bourne, Police Union Ratify Agreement After Lengthy Negotiation
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-07T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/bourne-police-union-ratify-agreement-after-lengthy-negotiation/article_dff8d43d-5057-440c-aa30-e2874c480223.html

Bourne police patrol officers are set to receive pay raises and expanded benefits under a new three-year collective bargaining agreement approved by the Select Board on Tuesday, August 4, though funding for the contract must still be approved by voters at Fall Town Meeting.

After a lengthy negotiation, The Town of Bourne and the Bourne Patrolman’s Association reached an agreement on a three-year contract that covers the period of July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2028.

Previous efforts to come to an agreement on a new contract took some time. David Ginisi, director of external relations for the New England Police Benevolent Association (NEPBA) had previously cited issues with salary discrepancies paid to Bourne officers compared to their colleagues in other towns across the Cape.

The Bourne Patrolman’s Association, of the New England Police Benevolent Association (NEPBA), is a union that represents detectives and patrol officers of the Bourne Police Department, its website states.

The union had ratified the agreement, Bourne Town Administrator Marlene V. McCollem stated in an email to the Enterprise. Select Board chairwoman Melissa A. Ferretti reported that the board had voted to approve the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the union during an executive session held directly before the board’s regular session on Tuesday. The board voted to ratify the agreement during regular session.

Although both parties ratified the agreement, funding must still be approved at Fall Town Meeting.

“The next step is that the Select Board will need to go to the Fall Town Meeting to fund the cost of the Agreement,” McCollem wrote to the Enterprise. “The Town will be working to determine the necessary Police Department budget adjustment as part of the motions for the Special Town Meeting.” She added that there is not a budget adjustment estimate yet, however, it will be developed “as part of the Town Meeting process.”

In a section labeled “matters outside of the agreement,” the union also stated its agreement to withdraw a grievance before the American Arbitration Association would be “effective upon the completion of all ratifications and approvals required to implement the terms of this Agreement.”

The MOA did not include additional information on the grievance.

McCollem shared that since the grievance was settled “as part of the confidential mediation process” she “can not share the grievance.” The Enterprise reached out to Ginisi for comment, but did not receive a response by press time.

It noted that “said withdrawal to be prejudice as to the specific incident giving rise to the grievance, but without binding precedence to other grievances arising under similar circumstances.”

Under a section titled “contract modifications,” the document outlines various amendments to the collective bargaining agreement that both parties agreed upon.

It outlined the wage increases for “all steps and ranks in the salary schedule.”

Under the agreement, officers will receive a 2.5% cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) and a 1% equity adjustment retroactive to July 1, 2025; a 2% COLA and 2% equity adjustment retroactive to July 1, 2026; and a 2.5% COLA and 1.5% equity adjustment effective July 1, 2027.

Additionally officers who are “certified as an accident reconstruction or licensed department drone operator” were now named amongst those who “shall receive, in addition to their weekly pay, a differential of Nine Hundred Fifty ($950) per annum,” it stated.

“Officers that qualify for the instructor/specialist differential are only entitled to one differential, regardless of the number of certifications/instructor certifications they hold,” the MOA also stated. “The instructor differential may be combined with the detective differential in the case of detectives that also are qualified under this section as instructors/specialists.”

These two aforementioned edits are effective and retroactive to July 1, 2025.

Compensation for night shifts was also updated. Language was amended to state that “beginning on July 1, 2027, officers working the evening shift receive compensation equal to 3.5% (per shift) of their base salary and officers working the overnight shift shall receive compensation equal to 5% (per shift) of their base salary.”

The previous version had stated that “beginning on July 1, 2008, officers working the 4 PM — 12 AM shift receive compensation equal to 2.5% (per shift) of their base salary and officers working the overnight shift shall receive compensation equal to 4% (per shift) of their base salary.”

Educational incentives were also updated. Officers who have “qualifying criminal justice related degree shall receive an educational incentive, paid in weekly amounts along with their regular weekly salary, of 10% of their base salary for an Associates’ Degree; 20% of their base salary for Bachelor’s Degree; and 25% of their base salary for a Masters’ Degree.”

The addition noted that “officers shall only qualify for one amount, which would be the highest qualifying degree attained.” It also outlined additional logistics for the incentive.

Additional benefits for a field training officer was amended to include that “an officer acting in the capacity of a Field Training Officers (FTO) shall be compensated at the rate of fifty ($50) dollars per shift.” It had previously been $25.

The addition also stated that “officers will no longer be able to elect to earn compensatory time in lieu of receiving the FTO stipend. FTO compensation requests must be submitted at the end of each shift where an officer worked in the capacity of a field training officer.”

Paid detail rates also increased.

Effective upon the agreement’s ratification, a section was edited to state that officers who are working as paid details would now be paid “$75.00 per hour effective upon ratification by the union and approval by the Select Board, $77.50 per hour effective July 1, 2026, and $80.00 per hour effective July 1, 2027” by the people who are purchasing the service.

Previously, this fixed detail rate had been “$60.00 per hour effective July 1, 2022, $61.00 per hour effective July 1, 2023, and $62.00 per hour effective July 1, 2024.”

Now that both Brian Lucier, president of the Bourne Patrolmen’s Association, and McCollem, with authorization from the Select Board, have signed the MOA the collective bargaining agreement has been finalized for fiscal years 2026 through 2028.

In an email to the Enterprise on Wednesday, August 5, NEPBA External Relations Director David Ginisi said NEPBA “is very pleased with the new memorandum of understanding” as “it is a fair contract that recognizes the professionalism and dedication of Bourne’s police officers while bringing the department more in line with comparable law enforcement agencies across Cape Cod.”

He noted NEPBA’s appreciation for the “collaborative efforts of all parties involved in reaching an agreement that benefits both our members and the community they proudly serve.”

The Enterprise reached out to Bourne Police Chief Brandon M. Esip for comment, but did not receive a response by press time.

Modifications outlined within the eight-page document are “subject to the required ratifications, approvals and funding.”
