Title: Deadline For Community Preservation Act  Applications Set
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/deadline-for-community-preservation-act-applications-set/article_ae932a6a-7515-42fa-971f-fe9cda98ddd8.html

The Bourne Community Preservation Committee (CPC) set an August 28 deadline for applications for Fall Town Meeting at its meeting on Monday , July 27 . The committee also reviewed and revised the Community Preservation Act application packet for Fiscal Year 2027.

With Fall Town Meeting set to start on Monday, October 19, the CPC sought to prepare for the upcoming Community Preservation Act funding applications.

Composed of members from several town boards, committees and commissions, part of the CPC’s charge is to make recommendations at Town Meeting for the use of the town’s Community Preservation Act to fund either historical, open space, affordable housing or recreation projects related to community preservation.

The packet provides the application itself, as well as guidelines and criteria, such as required information, documentation and approvals, to those interested in applying for Community Preservation Act funding with the CPC.

The previous 19-page version of the packet had been used for many years, CPC’s administrative staff member Jean Loud Potter said in an email to the Enterprise.

Noticing that people tended to submit the entire packet, including unnecessary pages, the revisions were done to “simplify it and take it down to just the necessities and reword things,” Potter said as she presented a new 11-page version of the packet on Monday. She added that the revisions also included featuring the town’s seal on the front page.

“I got rid of the sample letter. I still have it separate; that is something we could still put on the website for people to review,” Potter said.

“It looks excellent,” John J. Duggan Jr., the Planning Board’s representative on the committee, said of the revised version. Melvin Peter Holmes, the Conservation Commission’s representative, said he “thought it looked good.”

Andrew Cooney, the Open Space Committee’s representative, had two suggestions.

“It seems that every time a CPC article is presented to us, we tend to ask the same questions and they’re not always addressed immediately,” Cooney said.

He proposed that in regard to projects, especially those involving renovation, demolition or historical significance, there should be a reference to the need to maintain “compliance with existing state regulations…or building codes.”

CPC chairman Barry H. Johnson suggested that he and Potter meet with town Building Commissioner Eleanor MacKay to get her input and recommendations on how it should be written.

Having noticed that the CPC often asks whether a proposed project, especially a recreation project, is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Cooney also suggested including a protocol for applicants to follow to ensure that they have made a presentation to the Bourne Commission on Disabilities to confirm the project’s compliance. He noted that this could be added alongside the other boards, commissions and committees to which applicants have to present their application .

“Jean, you did an excellent job on this Community Preservation Act application process,” Cooney said.

Johnson said he would “follow up” on Cooney’s suggestions.

The CPC also confirmed the deadline to receive applications for Fall Town Meeting articles. The date of Friday, August 28, was selected.

More information about the Bourne Community Preservation Committee’s FY27 application packet and the sample letter can be found at bourne-ma.gov/1287/Community-Preservation .
