Title: Fishing For The Mission 22 Founder Aims To Continue Mission As Trustee Of Bourne's Veterans Memorial Community Center
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/fishing-for-the-mission-22-founder-aims-to-continue-mission-as-trustee-of-bournes-veterans/article_f9bf2bea-cec6-4351-8d5c-ed14eddd2009.html

Harold F. Skelton III is the newest addition to the Board of Trustees of the Veterans Memorial Community Center after the Select Board and the Trustees of the Veterans Memorial Community Center unanimously voted to appoint him at a joint meeting on July 21. The appointment fills the vacant military veteran seat on the board, with a term ending on May 18, 2027.

Now a Buzzards Bay resident, Skelton was originally from Holyoke. After graduating from Westfield State University, Skelton first took a job in corrections in Florida before enlisting in the US Air Force’s military police.

After serving several tours in Iraq, Skelton said he “came back with the hidden scars of war.”

It was also during this time that Skelton earned his master’s degree and started working on his doctorate degree in homeland security functions at Colorado Technical University. “I had a conditional offer to go into the DEA task force, work in narco terrorism,” he added.

However, after his command began to notice changes in his behavior, he went before a medical evaluation board, which is a panel of military doctors that reviews the health of a service member.

“I worked 30 years, getting educated to do my dream job, and when that was taken, I unfortunately tried to take my life,” Skelton said. “That was in 2010.”

Moving back to Holyoke, he continued to battle with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression.

It was in 2016, that he reconnected with his childhood love of fishing on the Cape. The birth of his son and daughter in the following years “brought purpose back into my life.”

He decided to move to Buzzards Bay approximately six years ago “with a determination to help veterans heal because I saw the therapeutic benefits of fishing.”

Observing how it would take months for veterans to get an appointment for their mental health and recognizing the need to make services and assistance more accessible for veterans, first responders and active-duty military members, Skelton founded Fishing for the Mission 22 in 2022. The name serves as a reminder that an average of 22 veterans commit suicide daily, Skelton said.

The organization eventually opened its center at 47 Main Street in Buzzards Bay in May 2024.

As a nonprofit organization, Skelton said Fishing for the Mission 22 uses fishing trips out of Dennis and Taylor’s Point Buzzards Bay as “our segue, our pathway.”

“When veterans go out from Taylor’s Point, we invite them back” to 47 Main Street, across the street from the marina, and “we have pizza and we tell them about all the other programs.”

The organization offers—at no cost, no insurance requirement—licensed in-person and telehealth behavioral health services, peer support, Veterans Affairs claims assistance, fishing rod building clinics, hardship grants, vocational marine captains license training program and three electric bikes outfitted with fishing equipment to be loaned out. Skelton said that the organization is working on offering an all-female peer support group in the fall.

“We see a lot of veterans that come here, they become friends and they’re hanging out,” Skelton added.

Through fundraising and, more recently, grant writing, the organization is able to support these services and programs.

While the majority of people are from the Cape and South Shore, the organization’s center in Buzzards Bay also covers the rest of Massachusetts, he noted. The organization also has established divisions in South Carolina and Virginia.

“I want to give back to a community that’s been great to me and my family, be able to make an impact and help grow any of the initiatives that they have,” Skelton said when asked what he is most looking forward to in his newest role.

As a trustee of the Veterans Memorial Community Center, Skelton will be part of discussions about “community events, the Veterans Memorial Wall located in the building, and repairs and maintenance needs associated with the building,” the town’s website states.

Since it is an elected position, by the next town election in Spring 2027, Skelton will have to submit nomination papers to be featured on the ballot if he would like to continue serving in this new role.

To learn more about Fishing for the Mission 22’s fishing trips, services or to volunteer, visit fishingforthemission22.org/ , call 774-810-2223, email info@fishingforthemission22.org or stop by 47 Main Street in Buzzards Bay.
