Title: New Tidal Turbine Prototype To Be Tested In Canal's Tidal Testing Site
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-07-31T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/new-tidal-turbine-prototype-to-be-tested-in-canals-tidal-testing-site/article_fdc41187-e20b-4df0-95d7-2ad78e6fdff3.html

A new tidal turbine prototype will be tested at the Marine Renewable Energy Collaborative’s (MRECo) Bourne Tidal Test Site (BTTS) located in the Cape Cod Canal near the railroad bridge.

The tidal turbine, which is developed by Alaska-based alternative energy equipment company Sitkana, will be tested in the canal’s tidal currents as “engineers evaluate its performance, reliability and durability in real ocean conditions,” MRECo stated in a press release. The site “provides developers with a pre-permitted, shared testing site, helping to move technologies from prototype to commercialization faster.

The mission with the prototype is to “make marine energy easier to build, deploy, and maintain in remote areas,” Sitkana founder and CEO Lance McMullan said in the press release.

The technology behind the prototype tidal turbine employs “smaller modular units that combine into larger arrays, allowing systems to scale without large scale infrastructure or specialized installation equipment,” McMullan stated.

Noting the importance of testing prior to the prototype’s commercial use, McMullan said that “BTTS is one of the few places where we can evaluate our entire system in one location.”

He added that it will provide a chance to “observe [the] operation in a real marine environment and better understand interactions with wildlife.”

BTTS has “water speeds that reach four knots, which is considered a target for testing tidal turbines. The test site has a platform which allows the turbine and sensors to be rigidly mounted so test results are better,” MRECo Executive Director John R. Miller said in an email to the Enterprise on Monday , July 27 . “It is the only platform like it in the world.”

Sitkana’s testing is planned to occur from Friday, August 10, to Monday, August 13, Miller said. However, he noted that “things may slip” due to variables such as the weather and the large team involved, which includes the European Marine Energy Center and the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth.

“Marine renewables, wave and tidal, tend to be more consistent and predictable than wind and solar so they provide grid managers with more consistent power,” Miller said.

He continued, expressing the potential of marine renewables: “The ‘Holy Grail’ of energy driven by moving water is capturing the energy of currents like the Gulf Stream. This is challenging but if we can do it we would provide an almost endless supply of energy available 24 hrs a day. With the intellectual capital in our universities and our test site we can find that technology.”
