Title: Town Engineer Updates Bourne Select Board; Road Taking, Betterment, Stormwater Drainage Projects Addressed
Author: HELEN SIEVERT
Date: 2026-08-07T00:00:00-04:00
URL: https://www.capenews.net/bourne/news/town-engineer-updates-bourne-select-board-road-taking-betterment-stormwater-drainage-projects-addressed/article_f1de4c05-12cb-4789-a500-9f6cd01463ce.html

Town Engineer Timothy Lydon spoke before the Bourne Select Board in regard to three projects—Hen Cove stormwater drainage project, the betterments at Tara Terrace, Eldridge Street and Eldridge Street Extension, and the Pocasset Woods road taking—at its meeting on Tuesday , August 4 .

The Hen Cove stormwater drainage project, which was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, will hopefully be “wrapped up mid-September,” Lydon said.

“We have worked on this project for what seems like forever,” he noted. After parting ways with the original contractor due to logistical and scheduling misalignments, the role of project contractor was put back out to bid, resulting in the delay.

Once Speakman Excavating LLC, a Dennis-based excavating contractor, was hired, they did “a lot of work in a very short amount of time. We were on site everyday,” Lydon said. He also expressed appreciation to Public Works Director Matthew Sawicki and his department for their work on the project.

Since the work was “being done in such an expedited manner" and being done well, Sawicki said, an extension was provided for the work to be completed.

Lydon did acknowledge that despite keeping “track of transitions from each site to the other,” there were “a few oversights” regarding designs and project materials before describing the work that the project entails.

A design challenge that was faced with the project's jellyfish chambers was that they “were too high–we hit groundwater a couple inches higher than we needed to,” Lydon said. “We made adjustments in the field.”

Jellyfish chambers, which are treated cartridges, will be installed at the bottom of Park Street, Saco Avenue and Circuit Avenue, which all are perpendicular to the shore of Hen Cove. “Those cartridges are going to treat a lot of the bacteria and a lot of the nitrogen coming down the hill that are causing beach closures,” Lydon said. “We’re treating the first inch of runoff from rainwater. That really collects most of your solids.”

Lydon explained that the company from which the chambers were ordered casts the in-place frames in concrete, which has led to discussions “on having them either supplying us with those or having the contractor modify these units in the field.”

He added that currently “two chambers are sitting very high. We also have one that is too low, and we need to put a riser on that to bring it up to grade”

Lydon said that the engineering department and the DPW have received many calls from residents regarding drainage that appears to be clogged by asphalt. Since the cartridges are not yet installed, the filter fabric remains in place.

“That is by design at this time,” he said. “We are trying to protect these units before we put in the final pavement.”

Outlining the plan for paving, Lydon said that it will feature four inches of dense grade and two-and-a-half inches of binder. He added that in September the last one-and-a-half inch layer will be added when a micro mill is done.

“We’re going to blend it with an overlay over the existing pavement. We are going to do our best to match that,” Lydon said. “We’re taking down the crowns on some of these roads because of those trench grades. We are flattening those areas out, making sure these gutter lines are pitched down.”

Lydon shared that landscape work and site preparation for the final overlay will be done either towards the end of August or after Labor Day. He added that the currently buried manholes will be exposed and elevated “when we come back for the top coat.”

“That road should be good until it meets its time in the pavement management program,” Lydon said.

Noting how materials for the project had been kept on the beach before being moved near the Hen Cove boat ramp on gravel, Lydon said that they will also “remediate that gravel area and put grass back after all this work is done.”

Lydon had prepared an estimated order of assessment of betterments for the resurfacing and temporary repairs of Tara Terrace, Eldridge Street and Eldridge Street Extension for the Bourne Select Board to sign on Tuesday.

The request for $1,038,373.70 for road improvements was approved at this past May’s Annual Town Meeting. The roads will remain private and not become public. The sum will be repaid through betterments assessed to the homeowners on the roads.

Upon the board signing the order, the document would be recorded at the Registry of Deeds alongside two associated exhibits—the Town Meeting vote and abutters’ deed references.

While the estimated order of assessment of betterments reflects a total of $982,276.07, the final cost will be presented to the board at a future date.

“Once we do the work, we will come back with the exact cost and we will give you the final order of betterments and then we will file that,” Lydon said. “That will supersede the estimated order.”

After board vice chairwoman Anne-Marie Siroonian seconded a motion by clerk Mary Jane Mastrangelo “to approve the estimated order of assessment of betterments for the repairs and resurfacing” of the three streets, the board—Siroonian, Mastrangelo and chairwoman Melissa A. Ferretti—unanimously voted in the affirmative.

A step was taken towards the road taking of Pocasset Woods’ Spinnaker Lane and Daniel Webster Lane, as Lydon presented the board with the Order of Taking for the roads for its signature on Tuesday.

Annual May Town Meeting had approved the betterment and acceptance of Spinnaker Lane and Daniel Webster Lane as public ways; they are currently private.

“Those will be the first two roads that we are looking to accept in 40 years voluntarily,” Lydon noted.

The vote authorized the town to borrow $602,250 for the construction and repair of roads to meet the town’s regulations, which the town then accepted. That cost would be paid by a tax betterment assessed to the homeowners on the roads.

Lydon shared that while the Order of Taking was ready for the board’s signature on Tuesday, the documents regarding the betterment will be presented to the board soon, once town counsel has finished reviewing them.

In addition to returning to the board to obtain its signature on the betterment documents, the Order of Taking and the plan for the road taking will be recorded with the Registry of Deeds, Lydon said.

The next step will be the Notice of Taking, which will feature the aforementioned recorded plan’s reference number at the Registry of Deeds, Lydon said. He added that the abutters will be notified of the road taking and the betterment.

Mastrangelo asked why the betterment documents for the project were not included on Tuesday for signature alongside the Order of Taking. Lydon said that the documents are being presented separately as he wanted to “make sure we have the betterment worded appropriately because it is a road taking… I wanted to make sure we got that right.”

After Siroonian seconded Mastrangelo’s motion “to approve and execute the Order of Taking for Spinnaker Lane and Daniel Webster Lane,” the board voted 3-0 to approve the motion.
